Release Notes: 2025.09 highlight for Assistant (#158)
posit-dev/positron-website: release-notes/next.md

#### Positron Assistant 🤖

> The Positron Assistant is now more powerful and versatile than ever. New slash commands (`/fix`, `/explain`, and `/doc`) are available to debug, understand, and document code. These commands can even be triggered automatically; for example, you can convert a chat into a Quarto document just by asking, "Can you convert this to Quarto?"

Reviewer: Suggestion to note the example is for the `/exportQuarto` command

```suggestion
The Positron Assistant is now more powerful and versatile than ever. New slash commands (`/fix`, `/explain`, and `/doc`) are available to debug, understand, and document code. These commands can even be triggered automatically; for example, you can convert a chat into a Quarto document just by asking, "Can you convert this to Quarto?", even if you don't specify the `/exportQuarto` command as part of your message.
```

> The Positron Assistant is now more powerful and versatile than ever. New slash commands — `/fix`, `/explain`, and `/doc` — are available to debug, understand, and document code with ease. These commands integrate can even be triggered automatically, such as converting a chat into a Quarto document just by asking, "Can you convert this to Quarto?"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Positron Assistant is now more powerful and versatile than ever. New slash commands (`/fix`, `/explain`, and `/doc`) are available to debug, understand, and document code. These commands can even be triggered automatically; for example, you can convert a chat into a Quarto document just by asking, "Can you convert this to Quarto?"
```

I have a real personal pet peeve with ever saying anything is easy or simple. 😭

Author: "*hopefully* with ease" 😆

> Fix & Explain support for Console errors has also been introduced. With a single click, the Assistant can Fix or Explain an error, acting as a coding partner for troubleshooting. You can try it out by enabling [`positron.assistant.consoleActions.enable`](positron://settings/positron.assistant.consoleActions.enable) in Settings. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
"Fix" & "Explain" support for Console errors has also been introduced. With a single click, the Assistant can fix or explain an error, acting as a coding partner for troubleshooting. You can try it out by enabling [the `positron.assistant.consoleActions.enable` setting](positron://settings/positron.assistant.consoleActions.enable). 
```
